README.md, before:

# ACPaaS UI Embeddable Widgets

This library enables cross-framework embedding of a part of one application into a page of another application at run-time using iframes.

An application part that can be embedded is called a widget. The app which publishes the widget is called the publisher. The app which embeds the published widget into a page is called the container.

Widgets can declare API's that are available in the container's page, even if container and publisher are implemented in different front-end frameworks.

## Using

### Including

A first step for both publishing and embedding is including the widgets library into the page.

```html
<script src="//cdn.antwerpen.be/aui_embeddable_widgets/1.0.0/aui-embeddable-widgets.min.js"></script>
```

If you don't want to load from CDN, you can also `npm install @acpaas-ui/embeddable-widgets` and you will find the library in the `node_modules/@acpaas-ui/embeddable-widgets/lib` folder.

### Publishing

You can publish any webpage as an embeddable widget.

#### Declaring

First you need to publish the definition of the widget on a web-accessible URL as JSON.

```json
{
  "tag": "my-foo-widget",
  "url": "/foo-widget",
  "dimensions": {
    "width": "100%",
    "height": "500px"
  },
  "props": {
    "fooData": {
      "type": "array",
      "required": true
    },
    "onFoo": {
      "type": "function",
      "required": false
    }
  }
}
```

What is going on here:

- The `tag` is a unique identifier for the widget in the page (it is not automatically mapped to a HTML tag).
- The `url` points to where the widget's page is hosted. It can be relative (to the JSON's URL) or absolute.

  > It is not required that the definition is hosted on the same server as the widget.

- The `dimensions` specify the initial rendering dimensions, applies as style attributes to the iframe.
- The `props` specify the properties that the widget can be initialized with
  - `fooData` is an array which will be passed from container to widget
  - `onFoo` is an event handler which will be defined in the container and called by the widget

See the [API](#API) section below for more details.

> CORS headers need to be set on this JSON (e.g. `Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *`).
> CORS headers do not need to be set on the widget page itself.

#### Angular

To publish an Angular 6+ app, use the Angular wrapper [ngx-embeddable-widgets]. It includes an example app.

#### Other Frameworks

Initialize the widget:

```js
window.auiEmbeddableWidgets.load('//example.com/path/to/definition.json');
```

Access the properties passed from the container in `window.xprops`.

```js
function doFoo() {
  if (window.xprops && window.xprops.fooData) {
    const result = window.xprops.fooData.map(...);
    if (window.xprops.onFoo) {
      window.xprops.onFoo(result);
    }
  }
}
```

> The widget's page does not need cross-origin headers. It communicates to the container via `window.postMessage`. However, it should allow framing by setting appropriate `X-Frame-Options` or `Content-Security-Policy` headers if necessary.

### Embedding

#### Angular

To embed into an Angular 6+ app, use the Angular wrapper [ngx-embeddable-widgets].

#### React

```js
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';

const MyWidget = window.auiEmbeddableWidgets.reactComponent(
  // url to the definition
  "//example.com/path/to/defintion.json",
  { React, ReactDOM }
)

class App extends Component {

  onFoo(result) { ... }

  render() {
    return (
      <MyWidget
        fooData={ ['one', 'two'] }
        onFoo={ result => this.onFoo(result) }
        />
    );
  }
}
```

#### Other

Provide a div to render the widget in:

```html
<div id="my-container"></div>
```

Render the widget into the div, passing it the necessary properties:

```js
window.auiEmbeddableWidgets.renderUrl(
  '//example.com/path/to/definition.json',
  { fooData: ['one', 'two'],
    onFoo: function(result) { ... } },
  document.getElementById('my-container')
);
```

## API

### `window.auiEmbeddableWidgets`

- `define(definition: object): object`

  Defines a widget from the specified definition (same as the JSON described above) and returns a handle to widget for instantiating.

  > Each widget has a unique tag. Each tag can only be defined once in the page, but can be rendered multiple times.

- `isDefined(tag: string): boolean`

  Returns true if the widget is already defined in the page.

- `load(url: string, ?overrides: object): Promise<object>`

  Loads a widget definition from a URL, applies the optional overrides to it, then returns a handle to the widget for instantiating.

- `render(tag: string|object, props: object, elem: HTMLElement): object`

  Renders a previously defined widget with the specified props parameters into the specified element and returns a handle to the instance.
  `tag` can be the widget instance returned from the load operation, or its tag string.

- `renderUrl(url: string, props: object, elem: HTMLElement, ?overrides: object): Promise<object>`

  Loads a widget definition from URL (if not yet loaded), applies the optional overrides to it,
  then renders it to the specified element with the given props parameters.
  Returns a promise for the rendered instance.

- `reactComponent(url: string, deps: object, ?overrides: object): object`

  Creates a React component for the widget with definition hosted at `url`, with the optional overrides applied to that definition.
  The deps object must contain the `React` and `ReactDOM` objects provided by React.

### Definition attributes

The possible attributes for the widget definition:

#### tag `string` [required]

A tag-name for the component, used for:

- Loading the correct component in the child window or frame
- Generating framework drivers
- Logging

```javascript
tag: 'my-component-tag'
```

#### url `string` [required]

The URL that will be loaded when the widget is rendered. Can be relative to the JSON's URL or absolute.

```javascript
url: 'https://example.com/foo-widget'
```

```javascript
url: '/foo-widget'
```

#### dimensions `{ width : string, height : string }`

The initial dimensions for the widget, in css-style units, with support for `px` or `%`.

```javascript
dimensions: {
    width: '300px',
    height: '200px'
}
```

```javascript
dimensions: {
    width: '80%',
    height: '90%'
}
```

#### props `Object<string, Object>`

Props that can be passed to the widget when rendering (data or functions).

```javascript
props: {

    onLogin: {
        type: 'function'
    },

    prefilledEmail: {
        type: 'string',
        required: false
    }
}
```

##### Prop Options

- **type** `string`

  The data-type expected for the prop

  - `'string'`
  - `'number'`
  - `'boolean'`
  - `'object'`
  - `'function'`
  - `'array'`

- **required** `boolean`

  Whether or not the prop is mandatory. Defaults to `true`.

  ```javascript
  onLogin: {
      type: 'function',
      required: false
  }
  ```

- **defaultValue**

  The default value for the prop if not passed at render time. `required` must be false.

  ```javascript
  fooData: {
      type: "array",
      required: false,
      defaultValue: ["one", "two"]
  }
  ```

- **queryParam** `boolean | string`

  Should a prop be passed in the url (so it can influence the routing)?

  ```javascript
  email: {
      type: 'string',
      queryParam: true // ?email=foo@bar.com
  }
  ```

  If a string is set, this specifies the url param name which will be used.

  ```javascript
  email: {
      type: 'string',
      queryParam: 'user-email' // ?user-email=foo@bar.com
  }
  ```

- **serialization** `string`

  If `json`, the prop will be JSON stringified before being inserted into the url

  ```javascript
  user: {
      type: 'object',
      serialization: 'json' // ?user={"name":"Zippy","age":34}
  }
  ```

  If `dotify` the prop will be converted to dot-notation.

  ```javascript
  user: {
      type: 'object',
      serialization: 'dotify' // ?user.name=Zippy&user.age=34
  }
  ```

  If `base64`, the prop will be JSON stringified then base64 encoded before being inserted into the url

  ```javascript
  user: {
      type: 'object',
      serialization: 'base64' // ?user=eyJuYW1lIjoiWmlwcHkiLCJhZ2UiOjM0fQ==
  }
  ```

#### autoResize `{ height: boolean, width: boolean, element: string }`

Makes the container's iframe resize automatically when the child widget window size changes.

```javascript
autoResize: {
    width: false,
    height: true,
}
```

Note that by default it matches the `body` element of your content.
You can override this setting by specifying a custom selector as an `element` property.

```javascript
autoResize: {
    width: false,
    height: true,
    element: '.my-selector',
}
```

Recommended to only use autoResize for height. Width has some strange effects, especially when scroll bars are present.

#### defaultLogLevel `string`

The default logging level for the widget's internals, helpful for debugging. Options are:

- `'debug'`
- `'info'`
- `'warn'` (default)
- `'error'`

```javascript
defaultLogLevel: 'info'
```

> Note that this value can be overriden by passing `logLevel` as a prop when rendering the component.

#### Additional properties

Check the [Zoid API documentation][zoid-api] for additional properties. The function-based properties can only be specified as overrides, not in the JSON.

## Developing

- Run a server publishing the embeddable widgets framework

  ```sh
  npm install
  npm start
  ```

- Point your publisher and container apps to this locally hosted version.

See the [contribution guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for additional details.

## Design notes

This framework makes use of the [Zoid framework][zoid]], which implements the boilerplate for embedding apps into other apps using iframes and the postMessage API.

The wrapper is necessary to allow for a different developer experience which is more suited to the needs of Digipolis development projects.

- Zoid loads widget definitions synchronously from a script tag. This framework loads them asynchronously from JSON
  - no foreign code needs to execute inside the container app, low-risk
  - changes to the JSON's schema are easy to support with framework upgrades
  - no globals aside from the widgets framework itself
- Zoid requires the widget to know its own URL's, this doesn't
  - The widget does not need to known its own absolute URL, because the JSON can have a relative `url`
  - The widget framework uses the absolute URL of the JSON passed to `renderUrl` to determine the URL for the widget page itself
- Zoid supports popup windows, this doesn't
  - It adds a lot of code, and it still is very tricky in IE (see zoid documentation)
- All zoid API's are wrapped to allow replacing zoid later on and to support additional logic
- defaultLogLevel = warn, whereas zoid has defaultLogLevel = info (which is spammy)
  - Can still be overridden by the widget's JSON
- The framework itself is purely client-side, to allow hosting on a CDN.

## Todo

- [ ] Support max-width / max-height when autoResize is enabled
- [ ] Auth token relaying (security topics in general)
- [ ] Upgrade to latest zoid release

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE.md)

Copyright (c) 2019-present, Digipolis

<!-- external links -->

[ngx-embeddable-widgets]: https://github.com/digipolisantwerp/embeddable-widgets_component_angular
[zoid]: https://github.com/krakenjs/zoid
[zoid-api]: https://github.com/krakenjs/zoid/blob/zoid-v6/docs/api.md

Commit message:

fix issue detecting absolute url's

README.md, after:

# ACPaaS UI Embeddable Widgets

This library enables cross-framework embedding of a part of one application into a page of another application at run-time using iframes.

An application part that can be embedded is called a widget. The app which publishes the widget is called the publisher. The app which embeds the published widget into a page is called the container.

Widgets can declare API's that are available in the container's page, even if container and publisher are implemented in different front-end frameworks.

## Changelog

- 1.0.1 - Fix URL starting with "//" is not recognized as absolute
- 1.0.0 - Initial release

## Using

### Including

A first step for both publishing and embedding is including the widgets library into the page.

```html
<script src="//cdn.antwerpen.be/aui_embeddable_widgets/1.0.0/aui-embeddable-widgets.min.js"></script>
```

If you don't want to load from CDN, you can also `npm install @acpaas-ui/embeddable-widgets` and you will find the library in the `node_modules/@acpaas-ui/embeddable-widgets/lib` folder.

### Publishing

You can publish any webpage as an embeddable widget.

#### Declaring

First you need to publish the definition of the widget on a web-accessible URL as JSON.

```json
{
  "tag": "my-foo-widget",
  "url": "/foo-widget",
  "dimensions": {
    "width": "100%",
    "height": "500px"
  },
  "props": {
    "fooData": {
      "type": "array",
      "required": true
    },
    "onFoo": {
      "type": "function",
      "required": false
    }
  }
}
```

What is going on here:

- The `tag` is a unique identifier for the widget in the page (it is not automatically mapped to a HTML tag).
- The `url` points to where the widget's page is hosted. It can be relative (to the JSON's URL) or absolute.

  > It is not required that the definition is hosted on the same server as the widget.

- The `dimensions` specify the initial rendering dimensions, applies as style attributes to the iframe.
- The `props` specify the properties that the widget can be initialized with
  - `fooData` is an array which will be passed from container to widget
  - `onFoo` is an event handler which will be defined in the container and called by the widget

See the [API](#API) section below for more details.

> CORS headers need to be set on this JSON (e.g. `Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *`).
> CORS headers do not need to be set on the widget page itself.

#### Angular

To publish an Angular 6+ app, use the Angular wrapper [ngx-embeddable-widgets]. It includes an example app.

#### Other Frameworks

Initialize the widget:

```js
window.auiEmbeddableWidgets.load('//example.com/path/to/definition.json');
```

Access the properties passed from the container in `window.xprops`.

```js
function doFoo() {
  if (window.xprops && window.xprops.fooData) {
    const result = window.xprops.fooData.map(...);
    if (window.xprops.onFoo) {
      window.xprops.onFoo(result);
    }
  }
}
```

> The widget's page does not need cross-origin headers. It communicates to the container via `window.postMessage`. However, it should allow framing by setting appropriate `X-Frame-Options` or `Content-Security-Policy` headers if necessary.

### Embedding

#### Angular

To embed into an Angular 6+ app, use the Angular wrapper [ngx-embeddable-widgets].

#### React

```js
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';

const MyWidget = window.auiEmbeddableWidgets.reactComponent(
  // url to the definition
  "//example.com/path/to/defintion.json",
  { React, ReactDOM }
)

class App extends Component {

  onFoo(result) { ... }

  render() {
    return (
      <MyWidget
        fooData={ ['one', 'two'] }
        onFoo={ result => this.onFoo(result) }
        />
    );
  }
}
```

#### Other

Provide a div to render the widget in:

```html
<div id="my-container"></div>
```

Render the widget into the div, passing it the necessary properties:

```js
window.auiEmbeddableWidgets.renderUrl(
  '//example.com/path/to/definition.json',
  { fooData: ['one', 'two'],
    onFoo: function(result) { ... } },
  document.getElementById('my-container')
);
```

## API

### `window.auiEmbeddableWidgets`

- `define(definition: object): object`

  Defines a widget from the specified definition (same as the JSON described above) and returns a handle to widget for instantiating.

  > Each widget has a unique tag. Each tag can only be defined once in the page, but can be rendered multiple times.

- `isDefined(tag: string): boolean`

  Returns true if the widget is already defined in the page.

- `load(url: string, ?overrides: object): Promise<object>`

  Loads a widget definition from a URL, applies the optional overrides to it, then returns a handle to the widget for instantiating.

- `render(tag: string|object, props: object, elem: HTMLElement): object`

  Renders a previously defined widget with the specified props parameters into the specified element and returns a handle to the instance.
  `tag` can be the widget instance returned from the load operation, or its tag string.

- `renderUrl(url: string, props: object, elem: HTMLElement, ?overrides: object): Promise<object>`

  Loads a widget definition from URL (if not yet loaded), applies the optional overrides to it,
  then renders it to the specified element with the given props parameters.
  Returns a promise for the rendered instance.

- `reactComponent(url: string, deps: object, ?overrides: object): object`

  Creates a React component for the widget with definition hosted at `url`, with the optional overrides applied to that definition.
  The deps object must contain the `React` and `ReactDOM` objects provided by React.

### Definition attributes

The possible attributes for the widget definition:

#### tag `string` [required]

A tag-name for the component, used for:

- Loading the correct component in the child window or frame
- Generating framework drivers
- Logging

```javascript
tag: 'my-component-tag'
```

#### url `string` [required]

The URL that will be loaded when the widget is rendered. Can be relative to the JSON's URL or absolute.

```javascript
url: 'https://example.com/foo-widget'
```

```javascript
url: '/foo-widget'
```

#### dimensions `{ width : string, height : string }`

The initial dimensions for the widget, in css-style units, with support for `px` or `%`.

```javascript
dimensions: {
    width: '300px',
    height: '200px'
}
```

```javascript
dimensions: {
    width: '80%',
    height: '90%'
}
```

#### props `Object<string, Object>`

Props that can be passed to the widget when rendering (data or functions).

```javascript
props: {

    onLogin: {
        type: 'function'
    },

    prefilledEmail: {
        type: 'string',
        required: false
    }
}
```

##### Prop Options

- **type** `string`

  The data-type expected for the prop

  - `'string'`
  - `'number'`
  - `'boolean'`
  - `'object'`
  - `'function'`
  - `'array'`

- **required** `boolean`

  Whether or not the prop is mandatory. Defaults to `true`.

  ```javascript
  onLogin: {
      type: 'function',
      required: false
  }
  ```

- **defaultValue**

  The default value for the prop if not passed at render time. `required` must be false.

  ```javascript
  fooData: {
      type: "array",
      required: false,
      defaultValue: ["one", "two"]
  }
  ```

- **queryParam** `boolean | string`

  Should a prop be passed in the url (so it can influence the routing)?

  ```javascript
  email: {
      type: 'string',
      queryParam: true // ?email=foo@bar.com
  }
  ```

  If a string is set, this specifies the url param name which will be used.

  ```javascript
  email: {
      type: 'string',
      queryParam: 'user-email' // ?user-email=foo@bar.com
  }
  ```

- **serialization** `string`

  If `json`, the prop will be JSON stringified before being inserted into the url

  ```javascript
  user: {
      type: 'object',
      serialization: 'json' // ?user={"name":"Zippy","age":34}
  }
  ```

  If `dotify` the prop will be converted to dot-notation.

  ```javascript
  user: {
      type: 'object',
      serialization: 'dotify' // ?user.name=Zippy&user.age=34
  }
  ```

  If `base64`, the prop will be JSON stringified then base64 encoded before being inserted into the url

  ```javascript
  user: {
      type: 'object',
      serialization: 'base64' // ?user=eyJuYW1lIjoiWmlwcHkiLCJhZ2UiOjM0fQ==
  }
  ```

#### autoResize `{ height: boolean, width: boolean, element: string }`

Makes the container's iframe resize automatically when the child widget window size changes.

```javascript
autoResize: {
    width: false,
    height: true,
}
```

Note that by default it matches the `body` element of your content.
You can override this setting by specifying a custom selector as an `element` property.

```javascript
autoResize: {
    width: false,
    height: true,
    element: '.my-selector',
}
```

Recommended to only use autoResize for height. Width has some strange effects, especially when scroll bars are present.

#### defaultLogLevel `string`

The default logging level for the widget's internals, helpful for debugging. Options are:

- `'debug'`
- `'info'`
- `'warn'` (default)
- `'error'`

```javascript
defaultLogLevel: 'info'
```

> Note that this value can be overriden by passing `logLevel` as a prop when rendering the component.

#### Additional properties

Check the [Zoid API documentation][zoid-api] for additional properties. The function-based properties can only be specified as overrides, not in the JSON.

## Developing

- Run a server publishing the embeddable widgets framework

  ```sh
  npm install
  npm start
  ```

- Point your publisher and container apps to this locally hosted version.

See the [contribution guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for additional details.

## Design notes

This framework makes use of the [Zoid framework][zoid]], which implements the boilerplate for embedding apps into other apps using iframes and the postMessage API.

The wrapper is necessary to allow for a different developer experience which is more suited to the needs of Digipolis development projects.

- Zoid loads widget definitions synchronously from a script tag. This framework loads them asynchronously from JSON
  - no foreign code needs to execute inside the container app, low-risk
  - changes to the JSON's schema are easy to support with framework upgrades
  - no globals aside from the widgets framework itself
- Zoid requires the widget to know its own URL's, this doesn't
  - The widget does not need to known its own absolute URL, because the JSON can have a relative `url`
  - The widget framework uses the absolute URL of the JSON passed to `renderUrl` to determine the URL for the widget page itself
- Zoid supports popup windows, this doesn't
  - It adds a lot of code, and it still is very tricky in IE (see zoid documentation)
- All zoid API's are wrapped to allow replacing zoid later on and to support additional logic
- defaultLogLevel = warn, whereas zoid has defaultLogLevel = info (which is spammy)
  - Can still be overridden by the widget's JSON
- The framework itself is purely client-side, to allow hosting on a CDN.

## Todo

- [ ] Support max-width / max-height when autoResize is enabled
- [ ] Auth token relaying (security topics in general)
- [ ] Upgrade to latest zoid release

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE.md)

Copyright (c) 2019-present, Digipolis

<!-- external links -->

[ngx-embeddable-widgets]: https://github.com/digipolisantwerp/embeddable-widgets_component_angular
[zoid]: https://github.com/krakenjs/zoid
[zoid-api]: https://github.com/krakenjs/zoid/blob/zoid-v6/docs/api.md
